Now what about sizing of items? Here
these items are basically only as high as their text
and that's the default.
These items are as high as their content requires them to be
unless you set an explicit height for the row.
So if on that row, I would quickly with an inline style set a height of let's say 300 pixels,
if I would do that on the row, then you will see that the columns automatically take the full height
of the row. So the columns take all the height of the row but the row only takes as much height as required
by its highest child,
so it's kind of that circular dependency which you can break by assigning an explicit height here to
row
or of course you can also have a column that contains some bigger content.
For example here, if I do you add a card again or any other content, doesn't have to be a card,
could be a div, a paragraph, whatever you want and in there, I have an h1 tag, the column, row 1 col 2,
so now this clearly will take up more height because we have an h1 tag and a paragraph in there.
Now you will see that the first column here is also just as tall as the second one simply because
by default the row is as high as required by its tallest child which would be this child here
and therefore this column here basically adjusts.
You can overwrite that however, if you don't want to stretch items like this, you can control how this
should be positioned vertically,
so from top to bottom. Right now, the default is stretch but you can overwrite this and the official docs
as always are of help for that. In the component docs, if you search the grid there and you click on
ion-grid, you'll find a link to the grid layout detailed documentation. There in general, you can learn
all about the grid and I strongly recommend checking that out and you'll also find more about the alignment
and you'll learn that for vertical alignment, you can use these utility attributes, the same by the
way also for horizontal alignment which we'll also have a look at.
So now what can we set there? On your row, not on the column but on your row,
you can set align items and now the default is stretch. So therefore if I set stretch here, nothing
will change as this reloads
because this is the default,
they stretch across the vertical space. But if I set this to start for example, so align items start,
you will see a difference.
Now these items by default will only take the height as required by their content, not of the entire row
and then they are positioned at the start, seen from top to bottom and the start from top to bottom is
of course at the top.
Of course you also have align items end and if you know the CSS flexbox specification in CSS,
you of course will probably already have recognized that this in the end will just set the CSS
property align items to flex start or flex end.
So with end, align items end, it's pushed all the way to the bottom if it does not take the full height
of the row by default. Now of course you also have center and that is by the way a nice way of vertically
centering an item here which historically has always been tricky in HTML and CSS with the help of
flexbox and therefore here with the help of Ionic grid, it's not difficult anymore.
Now of course, you can not just vertically position your items,
what about horizontal positioning? For that,
you can also add a CSS utility attribute to your ion-row
and that would be justify-content-
and now you can set this for example to start.
Now what happens if you set it to start though?
Nothing, right?
You'll see the effect if you remove the offset.
So if I remove the offset from the first column and it reloads, we see what we had before, it is all
the way on the left.
Now let me show you justify-content-end, you will now see that the content, these two columns here
get pushed all the way to the right without an offset being set.
So you can also center items manually with the help of the offset and that can be especially useful
when working with different layouts for different device sizes but you can also control it here with
justify-content-end or justify-content-center for example for horizontal centering.
So that is also worth keeping in mind, though
I really want to emphasize if you are building a grid that should look and behave differently on different
screen sizes, you'll have an easier time when using the offset attribute
and speaking of that, let's dive into how you can ensure that your grid looks good on different screen
sizes.